INTRODUCTION. ix

Further on the memoir adds ‘Decessit autern vitio sto-
machi anno aetatis xxx.' which contradi&s the former
statement that he died A.D. 62, that is, near the end of
his twenty-eighth year. It is now generally believed that
this latter clause is not from the original, but added by
the compilet in ignorance, and we have no other evidence
as to the cause of his death.

In person he was handsome, and in character (as the
biographer tells us) he was a man of gentle ways and a
pattern of piety towards his mother and sister and aunt.
On his deathbed he left a note for his mother, in which
he bequeathed his library and a large sum of money to

clza ra cte r,

Cornutus, who however accepted only the former. Be· τυνι ww

sides the Satires he wrote a comedy, the title of which is
doubtful, a book of ὁδοιπορικά, and a few verses on the
death of his kinswoman Arria (Cf. Pliny, Epp. 111. 16 3
Mart. 1. 13). All these earlier productioris were after-
, wards destroyed by his 'mother in obedience to the
advice of Cornutus.

Amongst his most intimate friends were the above· ³1²

mentioned Stoic philosopher Cornutus, and Caesius 232 amu1

Bassus the lyric poet, a short account of whom will be
found prefixed to the fifth and sixth Satires which are
respectively addressed to them. He also made the
acquaintance of Seneca, but later on in his life and in
the expressive words of the biographer ‘non ut caperetur
ejus ingenio.' And it would have been strange had it
been otherwise, for, as Jahn well points out, there could
be little unanimity of fe'eling between two men who had
nothing in common beyond the profession of the same
philosophical principles. It is true that Seneca writes
like Persius, and that his works form the best possible
commentary on the Satires, but with this all resemblance
ceases between the two men. The principles of Persius
were heartfelt and sincere, and were taken as the guide
of his every-day life, whereas it was the semblance and

PER& b

Seneca,

